Pro Android is the first book to include coverage of Google Android 1.5 SDK (including the branch formerly called Cupcake). This essential book covers the fundamentals of building applications for embedded devices thru through to advanced concepts, such as custom 3D components.

    Takes a pragmatic approach to developing Google Android applications.
    Examines the Android Virtual Device; the Input-Method Framework, special development considerations for touch screen vs. keyboard/traditional input, Voice Recognition, and Live Folders,
    Covers the Android media APIs (media APIs, Wi-Fi APIs, etc), including the new simplified OpenGL, improved media framework and more.

With Android 1.5 and this book that includes Android 1.5 coverage, developers should will be able to build leading-edge mobile applications ranging from games to Google Apps like add-ons to Google Docs and more—no matter the device interface. Extend and run APIs of the Google Chrome browser/WebOS on G1, G2 and other forthcoming next-generation Google phones and other Android-enabled devices and netbooks.
What you’ll learn

    What is Android and how to use Android to build Java-based mobile applications for Google phones with touch screen or keyboard, thanks to Cupcake's inclusion as of Android 1.5.
    Create applications that run on either or both touch and keyboard screens.
    How to design and architect a variety of mobile phone and device applications using Google's Android SDK.
    Build multimedia and even game applications using Android's Media APIs, improved media framework and simplified OpenGL.
    How to use Android's location-based services, networking (Wi-Fi APIs) and security.

Who this book is for

This book is for professional software engineers/programmers looking to move their ideas and applications into the mobile space with Android. The author assumes the reader has a passable understanding of Java. They should be able to write classes and handle basic inheritance structures. This book also targets hobbyist developers looking to get their feet wet in the complex minefield of mobile software.

Table of Contents

        01. Introducing the Android Computing Platform 
        02. Getting Your Feet Wet 
        03. Using Resources, Content Providers, and Intents 
        04. Building User Interfaces and Using Controls 
        05. Working with Menus and Dialogs 
        06. Unveiling 2D Animation 
        07. Exploring Security and Location-Based Services 
        08. Building and Consuming Services 
        09. Using the Media Framework and Telephony APIs 
        10. Programming 3D Graphics with OpenGL
        11. Managing and Organizing Preferences
        12. Coming to Grips with 1.5
        13. Simplifying OpenGL and Exploring Live Folders

